add Task sequence code-sample (#1)
see-jc/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/task_sequences/README.md

> # `Task Sequences` Sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `Task Sequences (Parallel Loops)` Sample
```

Please also rename the directory from `task_sequences` to `task_sequences_parallel_loops` to distinguish from `task_sequences_hardware_reuse` that Juny is working on.

   style tier2 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), and more.

## Key Implementation Details

This sample demonstrates some key concepts:
- How to execute multiple dependent loops in parallel using the `task_sequence` class, `pipe`s and the `async()` function call
- How the compiler automatically adds depth to pipes that bypass one or more loops

> The demonstration system in this tutorial is structured like this:

Reviewer 2: The diagram should be described in a more detailed manner. It should be clear to the reader that the arrows labeled in the diagram represent pipes, and the data causes the dependencies within this chain of loops. Then, the introduction of tasks breaks these dependencies, resulting in lower latency. Currently, when reading the paragraph below, I am overwhelmed by the excessive amount of unexplained information derived from the waveform and also feel not enough connection between the system diagram and the waveform.

> ![](assets/LoopStructure.svg)

Reviewer: use a table to put the naive sequence of loops next to the graphic. I think this will help address Harry's request for more detail.

```suggestion
<table>
<tr>
<td>
struct NaiveKernel {
  int len;

  void operator()() const {
    int array_a_b[kVectSize];
    int array_b_c[kVectSize];
    int array_c_d[kVectSize];
    int array_a_d[kVectSize];

    // loopA
    [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
    for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
      int in0 = PipeIn0::read();
      int in1 = PipeIn1::read();
      array_a_b[i] = in0;
      array_a_d[i] = in1;
    }

    // loopB
    [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
    for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
      int tmp = array_a_b[i];
      tmp += i;
      array_b_c[i] = tmp;
    }

    // loopC
    [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
    for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
      int tmp = array_b_c[i];
      tmp += i;
      array_c_d[i] = tmp;
    }

    // loopD
    [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
    for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
      int tmp0 = array_c_d[i];
      int tmp1 = array_a_d[i];
      int out = tmp0 + tmp1;
      PipeOut::write(out);  
    }
  }
};
</td>
<td>
![](assets/LoopStructure.svg)
</td>
</tr>
</table>
```

When you write code containing a sequence of loops, each loop in the sequence must wait for the previous loop in the sequence to fully complete. This results in long execution time and poor occupancy of the FPGA datapath. Observe in the following graphic that it takes many hundreds of clock cycles before the output pipe produces any output:

![](assets/simulation_naive.png)

> Task sequences allow you to schedule loops to run in parallel, so data quickly flows through sequences of loops. A consumer loop can process an output as soon as a producer loop produces it, without waiting for the whole producer loop to finish executing. Observe in the following graphic that the output pipe produces results almost immediately:

Reviewer 2: It would also be beneficial to refer back to the system diagram (LoopStructure.svg) and explicitly state which loop this waveform reflects. Referring back to the diagram also gives the user a clearer overall understanding of the system and both the bottleneck and the improvement

![](assets/simulation_task_sequence.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe consider adding some screenshots from the report to showcase and compare the improvement.

Reviewer: this is a good suggestion. Code samples will sometimes have a 'Review the Reports' section that describes what users should look for in the reports.

### Code Example 

To use a task sequence in your design, include the `<sycl/ext/intel/experimental/task_sequence.hpp>` header file in your source code. The `task_sequence` class is a templated class with 3 parameters:

| Template Parameter | Type     | Default Value | Description
|--------------------|----------|---------------|---
| Task function      | callable | N/A           | A callable object `f` that defines the asynchronous task to be associated with the `task_sequence`. The callable object `f` must meet the following requirements: <br> • The object `f` must be statically resolvable at compile time, which means it is not a function pointer. <br> • The object `f` must not be an overloaded function. <br> • The return type (`ReturnT`) and argument types (`ArgsT…`) of object f must be resolvable and fixed.

> | Invocation Capacity* | `uint32_t` | 1 | The size of the hardware queue instantiated for `async()` function calls. This parameter value corresponds to the minimum number of outstanding `async()` function calls to be supported. When the outstanding number of `async()` function calls reaches this value, further calls may block until the number of outstanding calls is reduced to the `invocation_capacity`. The default value of this parameter is 1.

Reviewer 2: After reading the description of these two parameters (invocation capacity and response capacity), users will naturally wonder how to select appropriate values for them. We can introduce some basic principles for choosing these parameters.

Also, I would like to add some diagram illustrating the effect of using these two parameters. 

For example, for the invocation capacity, user might want to specify a larger value if they try to issue `async` calls very frequently, and then before they `get` all the results from the task function, they want the caller to move onto some other tasks. If we do not specify enough invocation capacity, the task function may stall the upstream caller so that the caller will block and stops making progress.
![invoc_capacity](https://github.com/chanjunc-intel/oneAPI-samples/assets/144172047/86ab857e-8264-48ca-8966-3e57d92570e9)

Similarly, specifying the correct response capacity creates the buffer at the `get` end so that the `get` calls will not block. A case to illustrate this might be when a user more frequently issues `async` and occasionally issues `get`. We don't want the task function to block because there is no consumer consuming its output (since `get` only happens after multiple `async`) - instead, we just want the results to be buffered and awaits for `get` to consume so that the task function makes progress. For example, if we don't have enough response capacity, then before the result being consumed, the task will backpressure upstream.
![response_capacity](https://github.com/chanjunc-intel/oneAPI-samples/assets/144172047/91c205ad-6a59-4283-8950-d2746a03d49f)

Reviewer: I think this is important material, but it belongs in the reference manual and the 'resource sharing' code sample. This issue will only turn up if you have a re-entrant kernel (that is, a kernel that is invoked multiple times externally) that `async()`s and `get()`s a task sequence once each invocation.

Reviewer 2: Understood :)

| Response Capacity* | `uint32_t` | 1 | The size of the hardware queue instantiated to hold task function results.

> *Invocation capacity and response capacity are optional 

> The following example shows how to use task sequence.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use task sequences to schedule loops to run in parallel.  
```

## Purpose

> Task sequences enable operations that we call 'task functions' to run asynchronously from the main flow of a kernel. This means that repeated calls to a function can be enqueued in a sequence, rather than repeatedly in-lining the function body. Including multiple task sequences in the same kernel expresses coarse-grained thread-level parallelism, such as executing loops in parallel. Illustrating this thread-level parallelism is the focus of this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Task sequences enable operations that we call 'task functions' to run asynchronously from the main flow of a kernel. Including multiple task sequences in the same kernel expresses coarse-grained thread-level parallelism, such as executing loops in parallel. This tutorial shows you how to use task sequences to execute a sequence of loops in parallel, and how it can improve your design's performance.
```

## Key Implementation Details

This sample demonstrates some key concepts:
- How to execute multiple dependent loops in parallel using the `task_sequence` class, `pipe`s and the `async()` function call
- How the compiler automatically adds depth to pipes that bypass one or more loops

The demonstration system in this tutorial is structured like this:

![](assets/LoopStructure.svg)

When you write code containing a sequence of loops, each loop in the sequence must wait for the previous loop in the sequence to fully complete. This results in long execution time and poor occupancy of the FPGA datapath. Observe in the following graphic that it takes many hundreds of clock cycles before the output pipe produces any output:

![](assets/simulation_naive.png)

Task sequences allow you to schedule loops to run in parallel, so data quickly flows through sequences of loops. A consumer loop can process an output as soon as a producer loop produces it, without waiting for the whole producer loop to finish executing. Observe in the following graphic that the output pipe produces results almost immediately:

![](assets/simulation_task_sequence.png)

> 

Reviewer: Add a note that this is only possible when the loops process data in the same order. That is, the **first** piece of data the second loop consumes should be the **first** piece of data produced by the first loop. Converting loops to task sequences and executing them in parallel will not help performance if the **first** piece of data consumed by the second loop is the **last** piece of data produced by the first loop, because then the second loop requires the first loop to completely finish.

Feel free to make that shorter if you like :)

| Invocation Capacity* | `uint32_t` | 1 | The size of the hardware queue instantiated for `async()` function calls. This parameter value corresponds to the minimum number of outstanding `async()` function calls to be supported. When the outstanding number of `async()` function calls reaches this value, further calls may block until the number of outstanding calls is reduced to the `invocation_capacity`. The default value of this parameter is 1.
| Response Capacity* | `uint32_t` | 1 | The size of the hardware queue instantiated to hold task function results. This parameter value corresponds to the maximum number of outstanding `async()` calls such that all outstanding tasks are guaranteed to make forward progress. Further `async()` calls may block until the number of outstanding calls reduces to the `response_capacity`. The default value of this parameter is 1.

> *Invocation capacity and response capacity are optional 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

*Invocation capacity and response capacity are optional 
```
add one or two newlines so that this doesn't get included in the table

![image](https://github.com/chanjunc-intel/oneAPI-samples/assets/86071037/b6b1b740-c5e0-401b-9d24-40dc1ec16989)

The following example shows how to use task sequence.  

```c++
[[intel::use_stall_enable_clusters]] 
void LoopA(int len) {
  [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
  for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    int in0 = PipeIn0::read();
    int in1 = PipeIn1::read();

    PipeAB::write(in0);
    PipeAD::write(in1);
  }
}

[[intel::use_stall_enable_clusters]] 
void LoopB(int len) {
  [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
  for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    int tmp = PipeAB::read();
    tmp += i;
    PipeBC::write(tmp);  
  }
}

> [[intel::use_stall_enable_clusters]] 

Reviewer: This makes it look like `[[intel::use_stall_enable_clusters]] is specifically necessary for `task_sequence`? I recall that we added it because the compiler was adding too much capacity in between the `async()` calls. If that bug has not been fixed for 2024.1, please make a note in the HSD ES case that these attributes should be removed when the bug is fixed.

also make a comment in the source code that the `[[intel::use_stall_enable_clusters]]` attribute is there to work around a compiler bug that hurts performance.

You can start your search for the HSD ES case here (this query looks for cases with CEG_HLD_ONEAPI tag): https://hsdes.intel.com/appstore/community/#/1408282547?queryId=18031042003

void LoopC(int len) {
  [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
  for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    int tmp = PipeBC::read();
    tmp += i;
    PipeCD::write(tmp);  
  }
}

[[intel::use_stall_enable_clusters]] 
void LoopD(int len) {
  [[intel::initiation_interval(1)]]  
  for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
    int tmp0 = PipeCD::read();
    int tmp1 = PipeAD::read();
    int out = tmp0 + tmp1;
    PipeOut::write(out);  
  }
}

///////////////////////////////////////

struct OptimizedKernel {
  int len;

  void operator()() const {
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::task_sequence<LoopA> task_a;
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::task_sequence<LoopB> task_b;
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::task_sequence<LoopC> task_c;
    sycl::ext::intel::experimental::task_sequence<LoopD> task_d;

    task_a.async(len);
    task_b.async(len);
    task_c.async(len);
    task_d.async(len);
  }
};
```

> C++ functions `LoopA`, `LoopB`, `LoopC` and `LoopD` are the task functions with asynchronous activities defined. Each of the task functions is used to parameterize a specific task_sequence class to create four task_sequence object instances, `task_a`, `task_b`,`task_c` and `task_d`. Parallel invocation of the task functions is launched through `async()` method that accepts the same arguments as their respective task functions. The

Reviewer: Good description! 👍

> C++ functions `LoopA`, `LoopB`, `LoopC` and `LoopD` are the task functions with asynchronous activities defined. Each of the task functions is used to parameterize a specific task_sequence class to create four task_sequence object instances, `task_a`, `task_b`,`task_c` and `task_d`. Parallel invocation of the task functions is launched through `async()` method that accepts the same arguments as their respective task functions. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The C++ functions `LoopA`, `LoopB`, `LoopC` and `LoopD` are the task functions with asynchronous activities defined. Each of the task functions is used to parameterize a specific `task_sequence` class to create four `task_sequence` object instances, `task_a`, `task_b`,`task_c` and `task_d`. The task functions are called in parallel through `async()` method that accepts the same arguments as their respective task functions. The
```
minor english corrections

> `async()` method call is non-blocking, and it returns before the asynchronous task functions invocation completes executing and potentially before the task functions even begins executing, as the return type from the `async()` method provides no implicit information on the execution status of task functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`async()` method call is non-blocking, and it returns before the asynchronous task function finishes executing, and potentially before the task function even _begins_ executing, as the return type of the `async()` method provides no implicit information on the execution status of task functions.
```

minor English corrections

> You can see a concrete example of a kernel that naively uses four sequential loops in `naive/main.cpp`. This design is modified to use task sequences to run the loops concurrently in `task_sequence/main.cpp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see a concrete example of a kernel that naively uses four sequential loops in `naive/main.cpp`. This design is modified to use task sequences to run the loops in parallel in `task_sequence/main.cpp`.
```

Reviewer: @yuguen-intel I feel like we can go beyond saying 'concurrent' all over the place here and say 'in parallel'. Do you agree?

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1050222/what-is-the-difference-between-concurrency-and-parallelism

- How to execute multiple dependent loops in parallel using the `task_sequence` class, `pipe`s and the `async()` function call
- How the compiler automatically adds depth to pipes that bypass one or more loops

> The demonstration system in this tutorial can be observed in the following diagram. The arrows in the diagram represents the data flow in the system and a consumer loop will process the output from the producer loop and finally writes the output into a output pipe. The behaviour of the naive implementation of the sequence of loops and using task sequences to schedule the loops to run in parallel can be observed in the waveform below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demonstration system in this tutorial is explained in the following diagram. The code contains a sequence of loops that communicate through arrays (e.g. Loop A communicates to loop B through `array_a_b`). The compiler will schedule these loops such that a producer loop must completely finish executing before its corresponding consumer loop can begin, as shown in the following simulation waveforms. We can improve performance by placing each loop in a `task_sequence` and joining the task sequences with pipes instead of arrays. This allows the compiler to schedule the loops to run in parallel.
```

![](assets/LoopStructure.svg)

> When you write code containing a sequence of loops, each loop in the sequence must wait for the previous loop in the sequence to fully complete. This results in long execution time and poor occupancy of the FPGA datapath. Observe in the following graphic that it takes many hundreds of clock cycles or approximately 344ns before the output pipe `IDPipeOut` produces any output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of the naive implementation using a sequence of loops is compared with an implementation using task sequences to schedule the loops to run in parallel below. 

When you write code containing a sequence of loops, each loop in the sequence must wait for the previous loop in the sequence to fully complete. This results in long execution time and poor occupancy of the FPGA datapath. Observe in the following graphic that it takes many hundreds of clock cycles or approximately 344 clock cycles* before the output pipe `IDPipeOut` produces any output:
```

![](assets/simulation_naive.png)

> Task sequences allow you to schedule loops to run in parallel, so data quickly flows through sequences of loops. A consumer loop can process an output as soon as a producer loop produces it, without waiting for the whole producer loop to finish executing. Observe in the following graphic that the output pipe `IDPipeOut` produces results almost immediately in approximately 3ns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Task sequences allow you to schedule loops to run in parallel, so data quickly flows through sequences of loops. A consumer loop can process an output as soon as a producer loop produces it, without waiting for the whole producer loop to finish executing. Observe in the following graphic that the output pipe `IDPipeOut` produces results almost immediately in approximately 3 clock cycles*:
```

![](assets/simulation_task_sequence.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*modelsim is configured with 1 clock cycle = 1ns

```

   cd build
   cmake .. -DTYPE=<NAIVE/TASK_SEQUENCE>
   ```
   >Use the appropriate `TYPE` parameter when running CMake to choose which design to compile:
   >| Example                                      | Directory             | Type (-DTYPE=) |
   >|----------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------|
   >| Naive                                        | naive/                | `NAIVE`        |
   >| Task sequence                                | task-sequence/        | `TASK_SEQUENCE`|
   

>    > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note**: You can override the default target by using the command:
```
